Hare krishna

In This course : (Video 1)
	1.Understanding Lambdas
	2.Using Lambdas
	3.Functional Interface.
	4.Method Refereance.
	5.Collection Improvments.

Why Lambdas : (Video 2)

	1.Enable functional programming.
	2.Readable and concise code.
	3.Easier to use APIs and Libraries.
	4.Enables support for parallel processing.

Dev Setup  : (Video 3)

Functional Vs Object Oriented Programming : (Video 4)

	Example of functional programming:
	
	List<int> numbersGreaterThanTen = numbers.Where(num => num > 10);

	The snippet inside the Where function is actually another little function that says "return whether or not the 
	variable named 'num' is greater than 10." (**See note at bottom about the syntax used here.) When you pass this 
	little function into Where, it runs every number in the list through it, and whichever numbers pass the greater
	-than-ten test are returned in a new list.

Why we need Functional programming ? Is we achieve something that is not achievable by Object Oriented programming language?

	Functional programming seams much more abstract to most people. It is a more “mathematical” model. That means mathematical proofs
	can be applied to functional implementations much easier than to object oriented implementations.
	As already stated, functions do not remember any information about the past (no ‘state’). That means f(2873.32) will always give 
	the same result no matter where it is calculated and at which point in time. This has interesting consequences:
	If we need f(2873.32) more than once, the system can store that result somewhere and reuse it later. We cannot do that in OOP because 
	the result may change depending on state or the function could change state information itself. In a distributed system we can decide 
	at any time weather it is ‘cheaper’ to send a result from one computer to another or to recalculate it locally. The programmer does not 
	even have to know as the result will be the same.

	In f(x)= g(x)+h(x)+i(x) the sub results g(x), h(x) and i(x) are totally independent of each other. That means it is not relevant which 
	of them is calculated first. You can even use three processors to calculate all of them at the same time. The programmer does not have to 
	think about that.

	Functional programming makes automatic parallelization and other automatic optimizations much easier than the object oriented model.
	 There is lots of interest in functional programming in high performance computing applications for that reason. Function results do 
	 not have th be calculated before they are needed and maybe they are never needed. When there is lots of data OOP can result in lots 
	 of time wasted to generate state information that is never used and memory required to store it. FP can avoid that making it intersting 
	 for some large scale database, AI, machine learning etc.

	But it is important to remember the limitations: In many situations the result of a function is the argument of the next like this:

	f(x)=g(h(i(x))). In this case we must figure out the results of i,h and g in that order because we don’t know the arguments any earlier. 
	The same is true if the result of a function is the argument to itself (recursion) like in f(f)=g(g(g(g(x)))). Functional programming is 
	not a “magic bullet” to parallel programming. If no parallel algorithm exists for a problem, functional programming won’t change that.

	At first look OOP seams to be more powerful than functional programming because OOP has state while the other model has not. But it is 
	not true. Functional programming is also turning complete. There is nothing that can be implemented with OOP that cannot also be done with 
	FP. The basic idea is simple (in theory, at least): Just combine all state information of all objects of an object oriented program into 
	a single data structure. Pass that as an argument to a single, large function that calculates the next state from this and use that function 
	on its own result over and over again (recursion).
	
Passing Behavior in OOP (Classical example of OOP) : (Video 5)
 	Code in OOP:
 	1.Everything is an object
 	2.All code blocks are associated with classes and object.
 	
 	
 Introduction of Lambda Expression and Lambda Examples: (Video 6 and Video 7)
 
 	1.greetingFunction = () -> System.out.println("Hare krishna");
 	2.doubleNumberFunction = (int a) -> a*2;
 	3.addNumber = (int a , int b) -> a+b;
 	4.safeDivideFunction = (int a , int b) -> {
 		if (b == 0) return 0;
 		return a/b;
 		};
 	5.stringLenFucntion = (String s) -> s.lenghth();	 
 	
 	Think Back to the example of Inline Strings and Numbers. Just like you can pass an inline string value to a method, you can pass in an "inline"
 	lanbda expression to.
 	Example 
 	AT Point 1 some action is store in  "greetingFunction" variable , we can pass this to another method like below:
 
 	greet(greetingFunction) // as greetingFunction is variable 	
 	public void greet (--------){
 	
 	// Some logic
	}
	Instead of passing variable to greet method we pass inline method directly like below
	
	greet(() -> System.out.println("Hare krishna"))
	
	Behaviour remain same.
	
	6. Now Compiler become preety smart that there is no need to tell return type in inline method compiler will detect type as per return value.
	
	7. Its actually invalid to specify return keyword when you have one liner lambda expression without {}!
	
	
Lambda as interface type (Video 8)

	Refer project Java8_video8:- Only "Greeter.java" File
	
Lambda Vs Interface Implementations(Video 9)
	
	Refer project Java8_video8:- Only "Greeter.java" File
	There are 3 ways to achieve it 
		1. As line Number 29 "HelloWordGreeting hellowordGreet = new HelloWordGreeting();" here we are creating new class which implement interface
		  	Using object of this class we call the required method
	
		2. As line Number 33 "Greeting greetingFunction = () -> System.out.println("Hare krishna");" by using lanbda Expression.

		3. By Anonymous inner class as done in line number 36 , if we call perform method then its own method is called.
		
Type Inference (Video 10)		
 
 	Refer project Java8_video8:
 	
 	Lambda Example:
 	(str) -> str.length();
 	
 	
Runnable Using Lambdas (Video 11)

 	 Refer project Java8_video8: - Only Runnablelambda.java
 	 
	
Some Questions:
	Que 1: Are we able to achieve recursive call using functional programming ? If yes then there is any benefits using functional programming ?
	

